.TH shellcuts 1 "27 July 2020" "1.4.0"

.SH NAME
shellcuts - directory shortcuts for your shell.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.RS 0
.B sc
.RI [ shellcut ]
.RE
.RS 0
.B sc
.I --option
.RI [ shellcut
.RI [ args... ]]
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
Shellcuts allows you to jump between saved/bookmarked locations in your filesystem via a single, short command. Shellcuts can:
.PP
.RS 2
- create a named shellcut for any location in your filesystem
.RE
.RS 2
- add a follow-up command to any shellcut like
.I ls
or
.I clear
.RE
.RS 2
- save a temporary "bread crumb" shellcut
.RE
.RS 2
- delete any old or expired shellcuts
.RE
.RS 2
- list all available shellcuts
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.B -n, --new
.I shellcut
.RI [ follow ]
.RS 4
Creates a new shellcut for the current directory with an optional follow-up command. If no follow-up command is provided then this shellcut will execute the default follow-up command after each jump. Follow-up commands with spaces or non-alphanumeric characters must be wrapped with single quotes.
.RE
.PP
.B -m, --move
.I shellcut
.RS 4
Moves an existing shellcut to the current directory.
.RE
.PP
.B  -d, --delete 
.I shellcut
.RS 4
Deletes the specified shellcut if it exists.
.RE
.PP
.B -f, --follow
.RI [ shellcut ]
.I follow
.RS 4
Adds a follow-up command that executes after each jump. If a shellcut name is provided, this follow-up command becomes associated with that shellcut only, else it becomes the default follow-up command.
.RE
.PP
.B -u, --unfollow
.RI [ shellcut ]
.RS 4
Removes a follow-up command. If a shellcut name is provided, that shellcut's follow-up command is reset to the default follow-up command. If no shellcut name is provided, the default follow-up command is reset.
.RE
.PP
.B -c, --crumb
.RS 4
Creates a temporary bread crumb that can be jumped to via
.I sc
alone.
.RE
.PP
.B -l, --list
.RI [ shellcut ]
.RS 4
Lists shellcut details. Include a shellcut name to show a single shellcut, otherwise this flag shows all shellcuts.
.RE
.PP
.B -h, --help
.RS 4
Displays a help menu for quick reference.
.RE
.PP
.B --version
.RS 4
Displays version information.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
Save a shellcut named
.I example
using the current directory:
.RS 4
.B sc -n example
.RE
.PP
Jump to the shellcut named
.I example
if it exists:
.RS 4
.B sc example
.RE
.PP
Delete a shellcut named
.I example
if it exists:
.RS 4
.B sc -d example
.RE
.PP
Save a new shellcut named
.I example
with a simple follow-up command:
.RS 4
.B sc -n example clear
.RE
.PP
Save a new shellcut named
.I example
with a complex follow-up command:
.RS 4
.B sc -n example 'clear; [ -e .git ] && git branch; ls'
.RE
.PP
Add a follow-up command to the existing
.I example
shellcut:
.RS 4
.B sc -f example clear
.RE
.PP
Remove the follow-up command from the
.I example
shellcut:
.RS 4
.B sc -u example
.RE
.PP
Add a default follow-up command:
.RS 4
.B sc -f clear
.RE
.PP
Remove the default follow-up command:
.RS 4
.B sc -u
.RE
.PP
Save the current directory as a bread crumb:
.RS 4
.B sc -c
.RE
.PP
Jump to the most recent bread crumb:
.RS 4
.B sc
.RE
.PP
List all saved shellcuts:
.RS 4
.B sc -l
.RE
.PP
List the
.I example
shellcut:
.RS 4
.B sc -l shellcut
.RE
.PP

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B SHELLCUTS_CONF
.RS 4
custom path for the shellcuts configuration file
.RE

.SH FILES
.B ~/.shellcuts
.RS 4
default location of shellcuts configuration file
.RE
.B /etc/shellcuts/shells/
.RS 4
location of all shell function files
.RE
.B /usr/bin/sc-core
.RS 4
core library called by the sourced shell functions
.RE
.B /usr/bin/sc
.RS 4
a first-time initialization script
.RE
.B /usr/share/doc/shellcuts/
.RS 4
location of all documentation
.RE

.SH LICENSE
MIT

.SH SOURCE
Visit
.I https://www.github.com/tgsachse/shellcuts
to view the complete project. Give the repository a star if you really liked it!

.SH AUTHOR
Tiger Sachse (tgsachse)
