.TH shellcuts 1 "5 January 2018" "1.1.1"

.SH NAME
shellcuts - directory shortcuts for your shell.

.SH SYNOPSIS
sc [shellcut] [-flag] [flag option]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Shellcuts are directory shortcuts inside your shell. They allow you to save locations using simple names and then cut back to those locations with a single, short command. This program is inspired by Bashmarks with hopes to support even more systems and shells. Shellcuts includes the following features:
.PP
.RS 2
- create named shellcuts to any location in the filesystem
.PP
- list all saved shellcuts
.PP
- delete shellcuts by name
.PP
- save shellcuts on a per-user basis
.PP
- support Bashmarks syntax for user comfort and familiarity
.RE
.PP
Planned features include:
.RS 2
.PP
- tab completion
.PP
- Fish, Zsh, Csh, Korn shell support
.PP
- z-like features
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.B  -d, --delete 
.I shellcut
.RS 4
delete the specified shellcut if it exists
.RE
.PP
.B -h, --help
.RS 4
display a help menu for quick reference
.RE
.PP
.B -l, --list
.RS 4
list all available shellcuts
.RE
.PP
.B -n, --new
.I shellcut
.RS 4
create a new shellcut for the current working directory
.RE
.PP
.B -p, --print
.I shellcut
.RS 4
print the specified shellcut to the screen
.RE
.PP
.B -v, --version:
.RS 4
display version information
.RE
.PP
.B --enable-z, --disable-z
.RS 4
enable or disable z-like features
.RE
.PP
.B --init
.RS 4
launch the initialization script
.RE

.SH USAGE
When you first install Shellcuts, you must initialize the program once before it can be used. Run this command to launch the configuration utility:
.PP
.RS 2
.I sc-init
.RE
.PP
The configuration utility will automatically configure your system, or if you'd prefer it can show you how to do the configuration manually. It's highly recommended that you use the automatic configuration, as it's safe from human error and is really easy!
.PP
The core command for Shellcuts is 
.I sc
and by default this program includes the following aliases:
.PP
.RS 2
-
.I shellcut
.PP
-
.I shellcuts
.PP
-
.I shellc
.PP
-
.I scut
.PP
.RE
Feel free to use any of the above or the main
.I sc
command to operate Shellcuts. This program also includes aliases to replicate Bashmarks syntax. They are as follows:
.PP
.RS 2
-
.I d
to delete, equivalent to
.I sc -d
.PP
-
.I g
to go, equivalent to
.I sc
.PP
-
.I l
to list, equivalent to
.I sc -l
.PP
-
.I p
to print, equivalent to
.I sc -p
.PP
-
.I s
to save, equivalent to
.I sc -n
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
Save a shellcut named
.I downloads
(assuming the current working directory is ~/Downloads or something similar):
.PP
.RS 4
.I sc -n downloads
.RE
.PP
Go to the shellcut named
.I downloads
(assuming the current working directory is somewhere else, /bin for example):
.PP
.RS 4
.I sc downloads
.RE
.PP
List all saved shellcuts:
.PP
.RS 4
.I sc -l
.RE
.PP

.SH FILES
.B ~/.config/shellcuts/shellcuts.sh
.RS 4
storage location for all shellcuts
.RE

.SH LICENSE
GPLv3

.SH SOURCE
Visit
.I https://www.github.com/tgsachse/shellcuts
to view the source code for this program and give the project a star if you really liked it!

.SH AUTHOR
Tiger Sachse (tgsachse)

